Welcome to our program.
Here's a preview of what we can look forward to.
This brother began his ministry in the Congo
when his fellow witnesses were few in number.
How did Jehovah bless his hard work to preach and shepherd?
It's a joy when we come together at assembly halls
for spiritual programs.
But how much work goes into caring
for these places of pure worship?
We also work to maintain peaceful relationships
with our brothers and sisters.
What lesson does this sister learn
that lets her see the beautiful qualities and others?
And we'll consider the privilege we have
to be fellow workers with God.
You're watching the October 2017 edition
of JW Broadcasting.
We begin with a report from the United States branch
in Wal-Kill, New York.
Any Bethel assignment is a joy
and sometimes a challenge.
Proper training is therefore an important part
of every job.
How does the maintenance department train hundreds
of volunteers to work efficiently and safely?
And how do the students feel
about the practical training they receive?
There were a few factors that created the need
at Bethel for a more structured training program.
One of those factors included
the regular changeover in personnel.
The brothers have to be more versatile.
In their assignments, they may have to do tasks.
They previously weren't trained on.
Printing equipment became more technologically advanced.
Our building systems became more complicated.
Computer systems were now starting to be used
to control virtually everything.
I feel like Bethel has definitely always been good
about training, but especially now,
I think everyone sees the need to continue investing
in the brothers and sisters
that are currently at Bethel.
I don't think it's possible for someone
to know less about the trades than I did when I started.
I remember my first reaction when I was invited
to help an electrical was a fear.
So when I received my assignment,
I found out that it involved
running the heavy equipment.
So I called my parents.
I was really excited about it.
I said, Mom and Dad, I guess what I get to do?
And Dad says, OK, son, well,
did you tell them that you don't know how to drive?
It was decided to pull a group of highly experienced,
highly skilled brothers to concentrate on developing
and teaching repeatable, consistent classes
that could bring people skill levels up to what was needed.
We teach well over 100 different classes
in 12 major categories.
Here at Bethel, I've probably been a part of
over 30 different classes.
So it's been a variety depending on the needs
at the time of the assignment.
I would estimate that I've taken about 15 or 20
different courses from safety and training
over the course of my 13 years in learning a trade.
I've become certified
and at least these seven different license requirements.
We teach people technical skills,
but that's not the sole purpose of the training.
If you aren't skilled in safety,
you can't be skilled in your trade and vice versa.
The objective in all of our safety courses
is to get them to view safety the same way
Jehovah views it as a reflection of their spirituality.
So training and safety is essential.
So our goal is to take them into the classroom,
give them some time to consider the theoretical,
and then we take them out where there's a lab setup
and we have them do some tests on it.
Typically they will tell us that they've been able to learn
more in a week than what they have learned
in a year of trade school.
We've done over 60,000 instances of training.
And so now receiving this training,
it provides an area or an aspect in which I can give my 100% to Jehovah.
You see it in their eyes are just so happy that they now have
maybe a new skill or a new understanding
that they can use to benefit Jehovah.
I love the fact that I came into Bethel
with virtually no experience,
and not only did I receive a trade that I could use
to carry out a work that glorifies Jehovah,
but I was trained well enough that I can share that with others
and they can be trained to.
Helping someone else to go from that feeling
of not knowing anything to feeling productive
and feeling like they're contributing
is a real joy for me.
And they can take what they learn wherever they go.
The confidence that people leave with,
once they've received that investment,
it's confidence that they can carry out whatever assignment
Jehovah has given them,
and the confidence that Jehovah is going to train them
for whatever's being asked of them.
I think if younger brothers and sisters
are trying to learn a skill so that they can come to Bethel,
that's commendable,
but more importantly is spirituality.
Let Jehovah finish your training.
In regard to training, we're really only getting started.
The training that we are getting
in this system of things by Jehovah
and especially related to safety
is absolutely going to be vital in the New World.
I can imagine the idea of being able to use
some of the things I've learned to figure out
how we can use the natural resources
in a way without using them up.
We know that we serve a God who is known
as the grand instructor.
So the things that we're teaching and training right now,
it can only expand in the future.
And as long as you let him train you,
you're going to be all right.
Good training gives us confidence
to do our best for Jehovah.
That's true at Bethel,
but also true in the field.
Have you, though, ever felt alone in your assignment,
even if, for just a few hours in the ministry,
for the Possean Bucanga
may have felt that way early in his assignment.
He was the first circuit overseer
for all of what is now the Democratic Republic of Congo
and the Republic of Congo.
He traveled great distances to visit
the few brothers throughout the territory.
Listen to what encouraged him the most to keep going.
In 1960, I was made a circuit overseer
for the whole of Congo.
I was so happy to receive this privilege.
But I was shocked and scared.
The assignment was huge.
Congo is a vast country.
I was afraid to go to places I didn't know.
I felt overwhelmed,
so I turned to Jehovah.
Sometimes I had to go through savannas
and across the jungle.
There were wild animals.
One day, I climbed up a tree
to find a place to sleep.
I tied myself to a branch with my bell.
I was afraid I would be taken by a boa snake.
I was afraid of getting lost in the forest.
Visiting the brothers was very difficult.
Sometimes the journey took many days.
I remember one day,
I left my house to visit the brothers to encourage them.
I left at 5.30 in the morning
and I arrived at 7.30 that night.
I had to push my bicycle through sand
for up to 13 miles or even more.
Other times, we traveled by truck.
That was not easy.
You had to climb on top of the truck.
I had to hold on tight so as not to fall.
Congregations, isolated groups
were far away from one another.
There were no phones at that time either.
Even though they did not know I was coming,
they made me feel so welcome.
The brothers were really very hospitable.
When I arrived, I was exhausted
but so happy to see the brothers.
The kids of Wala was a religion.
They sent many letters to the Belgian branch
to be recognized as Jehovah's Witnesses.
These people used our publications
and used the name Watchtower.
It created a lot of confusion.
To clarify the matter,
the organization prepared a booklet.
My mission was to check whether there were any genuine Jehovah's Witnesses
in Kisangani.
We found out that these people were not Jehovah's Witnesses.
In all the confusion, people even tried to kill me during the trip.
Fortunately, I managed to escape.
Since it was Jehovah who assigned me this privilege,
I was confident that he would always help me.
And today, I am very happy to have at my side my children,
my grandchildren, and my great-grandchildren,
all Jehovah's Witnesses.
Jehovah has given me many blessings.
I am truly grateful.
What a joy to be used by Almighty God.
Through all these years, I have never lacked anything.
Jehovah has given me this strength to serve him up until now
to the age of 86.
In everything and for everything,
my trust really is in Jehovah.
There were 46 publishers in the whole of Congo.
Today, I hear there are more than 223,000 Jehovah's Witnesses in the Congo.
Today, when I see the increase of Jehovah's People,
to me, it is like a miracle.
I thank Jehovah for allowing me to see the little one
become a thousand here in the Congo.
Brother Wakanga continues to serve as an elder at nearly 88 years old.
Can you imagine yourself experiencing both the joys and difficulties he had
as a circuit overseer?
He courageously visited the Kitawala religious groups
who claimed to serve Jehovah.
Only to find some were violent and practiced immorality.
But it was his reliance on Jehovah,
and watching him turn the small group of brothers into more than 200,000
that has kept him going.
He personally experienced our theme for this program,
the privilege and blessing of being God's fellow worker.
As Jehovah's People, we enjoy many undeserved and precious privileges.
Among them, we bear Jehovah's name and render him sacred service.
As we carry out his will, he dignifies us in a very special way.
At 1 Corinthians 3.9, the Apostle Paul under inspiration stated
that we are God's fellow workers.
What an honor to be a fellow worker with the universal sovereign
our loving Heavenly Father.
To build appreciation for the privilege of working with Jehovah,
we're going to review events in the life of Jonathan, son of King Saul.
1 Samuel 14.45 describes Jonathan when it says,
for it was with God that he acted this day.
What was the background that led to this statement?
How did Jonathan act or work with Jehovah on that day?
What lessons can we learn from their working relationship?
And what blessings result from being a fellow worker with God?
Let us begin with some background.
1 Samuel 12 and verse 20 records the encouraging words spoken
by the prophet Samuel to the nation of Israel.
Do not be afraid.
Only do not turn away from following Jehovah
and serve Jehovah with all your heart.
Verse 22 adds,
for the sake of his great name,
Jehovah will not abandon his people.
As long as they remain faithful,
Jehovah would always be there to guide, protect, and rescue them.
These words no doubt strengthen Jonathan to carry out Jehovah's directive
to subdue the enemy nations and take possession of the Promised Land.
At 1 Samuel 13,
we read that Jonathan was assigned 1000 men
to attack a Philistine garrison at Giba.
Although poorly equipped, Jonathan and his men succeeded.
This victory strengthened Jonathan's confidence in Jehovah
and provides a valuable lesson for us.
While we gained strength and courage
from Jehovah's reassuring words in the scriptures,
our confidence in Jehovah's support becomes even stronger
when we successfully carry out our assignments
that may seem overwhelming.
The account then relates how the Philistines
were infuriated over their defeat
and mounted a massive counterattack.
They sent out raiding parties
from their camp at McMash near Jerusalem.
Many as light men hid out of fear
and some even fled to the other side of the Jordan River.
In contrast, Jonathan remained courageous.
Determined to put a stop to the raids,
he confronted the Philistine outpost
at the ravine pass of McMash.
The approach was by way of a deep gorge
with nearly vertical cliffs.
This would have seen next to impossible
to someone unfamiliar with the area.
But Jonathan grew up in this territory
and apparently knew it well.
His knowledge of the surroundings
provides another practical lesson.
Whatever theocratic assignment we may be given,
putting forth time and effort to get to know
that the terrain, so to speak,
will contribute to our effectiveness.
When we show interest in our assigned work,
we become even more effective fellow workers of Jehovah.
Let's read as Jonathan prepares
to take action against the Philistines.
First Samuel 146 states,
so Jonathan said to his armor bearer,
come and let us cross over to the outpost
of these uncircumcized men.
Perhaps Jehovah will act in our behalf
for nothing can hinder Jehovah
from saving by many or by few.
What contributed to his confidence in Jehovah?
Recall that he put faith
in Jehovah's reassuring words
to the prophet Samuel.
Do not be afraid.
For the sake of his great name,
Jehovah will not abandon his people.
He experienced Jehovah's support
when he struck down the Philistine garrison at Giba.
Jonathan could also think back on Israel's history.
He could reflect on how Gideon
and his 300 men were victorious
over 135,000 Midianites.
He could meditate on Samson
killing 1,000 Philistines
with the jawbone of a donkey.
Such examples would bolster his confidence
that he was working with the Almighty God, Jehovah.
We too can meditate on fellow workers of God
recorded in the scriptures,
as well as published life stories
of modern-day faithful servants.
Such examples reinforce our faith in Jehovah
as we rely on him for success.
Another lesson comes from the response
of Jonathan's armor bearer
at 1 Samuel 147.
At this, his armor bearer said to him,
do whatever your heart impelled you to do,
turn wherever you wish,
and I will follow you wherever your heart impelled you.
It is unlikely that the attendant
would have initiated this challenging mission on his own.
Jonathan's confident lead
was a positive motivating influence on the man.
What happens today when elders
and overseers take the lead
and display zeal in Jehovah's work like Jonathan?
Others in the congregation
are also motivated to action
while they are fine example.
Let us now read verses 8 through 10.
Then Jonathan said,
we will cross over to those men
and reveal our presence to them.
If they say to us,
stand still until we come to you,
we will stand where we are
and not go up to them.
But if they say, come up against us,
we will go up,
because Jehovah will give them into our hand.
This will be our sign.
Jonathan once again demonstrated
humble reliance on Jehovah.
Earlier in Samuel's account,
Jonathan is described as
swifter than eagles and mightier than the lions.
However, these qualities and abilities
did not cause him to be self-reliant
or overconfident.
He sought Jehovah's direction
by means of a sign,
what a powerful reminder for us.
Regardless of any natural abilities,
acquired skills, or experience we may have,
the key to success
is seeking Jehovah's guidance and support.
We seek His direction
through specific prayers,
Bible reading, and meditation,
and applying direction from the faithful and discreet slave.
We also consult with long-time faithful brothers and sisters
who can share their rich experience
as God's fellow workers.
One such example was sister Joy Oram,
who served in the Britain ranch.
She shared her experiences
in an archived interview
sometime before finishing her earthly course in 2011.
Listen also to the comments
of her fellow workers in Britain
who benefited from their time together.
I had the privilege for two years
of sitting on the same table as sister Oram
for morning worship.
She expected nothing
and appreciated everything that you did for her.
Sister Oram was affectionately known as Joy.
And if you take the eith out of Joy,
you left with the English word Joy,
and that's under it.
My impression of Joy when I first met her
was here as this frail old lady.
But then when you got started to speak to Joy,
you were tapping into a tremendous depth.
About the age of 20, around about that time,
I had the heavenly calling.
That was a big battle.
I couldn't understand why Joy Hoover
would use a person like me.
When I was 21,
I got into pioneering in 1939.
But the police were after me
because I wouldn't join the armed forces.
And I was tried under a new act
and they kept taking me to a side room
and saying,
if you will see,
you're not connected with Joy Hoover's witnesses.
Not connected with the watchtower,
you have a walkaway.
I said, I am connected with the watchtower.
I'm proud to be connected with the watchtower.
They said,
then they are direct to you.
I said, no,
my stand of not doing as you wish.
It's my own personal stand.
So this went on.
In the end,
they sent me to prison just for two months
and let me out.
I partnered with another sister.
And she and I went to Northern Ireland
and pioneered there for 18 months.
And it was in Northern Ireland.
We had our call to Gilead.
In 1948, Joy was invited to Gilead.
And that was the 11th class.
It left an impression on me,
which I will never, ever, ever forget.
You pick up that spirit of good behaviour, of love.
It's something that leaves its mark,
or it should do.
It has left its mark on me very, very much so.
One thing, rather,
nor impressed on us,
you'll be three years on your assignment
before you really love it.
And it was true,
because it was a hard assignment.
After Gilead,
she was assigned to be a missionary in Dublin
in the Irish Republic.
That was the time
when Catholic priests used to organise mobs
against the pioneers.
She was full of joy,
but that didn't mean to say she'd had an easy life.
You never went out from door to door
without being mobs and attacked
and beaten up and thrown around.
And you could only do a few houses in a road
and you have to get away very quickly.
But we made a very good name.
People got to know we were completely neutral.
They chose four of us to work the business property.
And I got some studies going in their offices.
But one place I went into,
I walked the length of this draper shop.
And I asked if I could
go into the manager's office.
And as I went in,
I didn't say a word.
I didn't owe my mouth
and even say good morning,
but this man stood up
and he said,
rust the light!
And he took hold of me
by the scruff of my neck
and the seat of my pants
and he lifted me up.
And he carried me
the length of the store.
Well, like a silly one,
I should have gone heavy on him, you see.
But instead of that,
I lit my legs paddled.
And I was hanging on to my book bag
not wanting to lose it.
And when he got to the front door,
the staff,
their eyes were absolutely gone.
What's happening?
He opened his front door
and he threw me out of the tree
and I went,
zoom!
And just my little zoom again.
And one of the brothers
was passing and he caught me.
And caught me steady.
So it was going on.
And I couldn't stop laughing.
To me,
it was very, very funny.
The rest was so crossed about it.
But I wasn't a store cross.
I thought it was quite hilarious.
I could see myself being carried through this shop.
Sky high.
Things like that happened.
These experiences did not dampen her zeal.
She always retained that missionary spirit.
I first met Joey
when I was commuting to Bethel in the infirmary.
She was sitting on that old fashioned chair
with this huge Bible
and she stayed there
hours reading the Bible,
praying to Yelva.
Often when you came in,
she'd been in the middle of Bible reading
and she'd be saying something like,
Daniel's just been thrown into the line's den.
Or, oh, Yelva's really angry.
He's thundering from the heavens.
And it made me think,
wow, she must have read the Bible so many times.
But every time it was as if
it was happening right in front of her.
Right up until she became incapacitated,
she was conducting Bible studies
and helping people to come to know Yelva.
She was looking forward to her heavenly reward.
And for her that was
the culmination of a life of joy in Yelva's service
and that she was just transferring
to her next assignment.
I'm very, very grateful for work.
In fact, often in my prayers,
pray to Yelva that I'll have some good work to do today.
I'm very grateful to have work to do.
Similar to what we learned about Jonathan,
Sister Orham demonstrated humble reliance on Yelva.
So sure was her trust in God
that she could face even fearful situations
with a sense of humor.
We may not be able to laugh when enduring persecution,
but we can imitate Joy's faith and firm resolve.
What else can we learn from Jonathan's account?
Picking up at 1 Samuel 1412,
Jonathan and his armor bearer advanced toward the Philistines.
From their elevated location,
the Philistines shout to them.
Come up to us, and we will teach you a lesson.
At once, Jonathan said to his armor bearer,
follow me, for Jehovah will give them into the hand of Israel.
Jonathan had requested a specific sign, and he got it.
But it meant advancing up a steep and treacherous incline
right into the enemy hands.
Someone lacking complete trust in Jehovah might have said,
before proceeding,
or perhaps we should ask for another sign,
but not Jonathan.
Without hesitation, he told his attendant to follow him
because Jehovah would give the enemy into their hand.
When we received Jehovah's direction,
we should, without hesitation,
put our hearts into the work,
confident of Jehovah's backing.
What happened next?
First Samuel 14,
13 and 14 reports,
and Jonathan climbed up on his hands and feet,
and his armor bearer was behind him.
And the Philistines began to fall before Jonathan,
and his armor bearer was putting them to death behind him.
In the first attack that Jonathan and his armor bearer made,
they struck down about 20 men.
Even after receiving a clear sign from Jehovah,
it took great effort.
They had to climb up on their hands and feet,
exerting themselves vigorously over rugged terrain.
The lesson?
Even when we received clear direction,
and are ready to obey,
carrying out our assignments will not always be easy.
We have to exert ourselves vigorously,
being willing to work hard with all of our mind, heart, and strength.
How did the Philistines react to seeing Jehovah's support for his people?
First Samuel 14, 15 reads,
then terror spread in the field camp,
and among all the people of the outpost,
and even the raiding parties were terrified.
The earth began quaking,
and a terror from God ensued.
The earthquake Jehovah caused melted the Philistines' hearts.
Soon the Israelites, even those who had previously fled in fear,
joined the victory battle over the Philistines.
Likewise, when we put our hearts into theocratic assignments,
Jehovah, our best fellow worker,
will always come through with whatever we need to accomplish his will.
But there's another lesson to be learned from this exciting Bible account.
During the height of the battle,
King Saul gave an unwise order, saying,
cursed is the man who eats any food before the evening,
and until I have taken vengeance on my enemies.
Jonathan, however, was not aware of his father's order,
and ate some wild honey that he had found.
How did Saul react when he discovered that his own son had disobeyed him?
First Samuel 14, 43, and 44, tells us,
then Saul said to Jonathan,
tell me,
what have you done?
So Jonathan told him,
I merely tasted a little honey on the tip of the staff in my hand.
Here I am.
I am ready to die.
At this Saul said,
thus may God do and may he add to it
if you do not die, Jonathan.
Imagine, after all that Jonathan had done in risking his life and behalf of his people,
and seeing Jehovah grant so much success,
he is now being condemned to death by his own father.
How his heart must have sank in disbelief, disappointment, and sadness.
Would Jehovah now abandon his loyal fellow worker?
First Samuel 14, 45 reads,
but the people said to Saul,
should Jonathan die?
The one who brought this great victory to Israel?
It is unthinkable,
as surely as Jehovah is alive,
not even a single hair of his head should fall to the ground,
for it was with God that he acted this day.
With that the people rescued Jonathan,
and he did not die.
Jonathan's success provided undeniable evidence that he was truly Jehovah's fellow worker.
Jehovah, who had been at Jonathan's side the whole time,
saw everything that had happened
and would not allow his loyal worker to die at Saul's hands.
How comforting to know that when we faithfully carry out our assignments,
he will never forget our zealous efforts.
If someone as close as a father fails to see and appreciate the work we do in Jehovah's service,
or even turns against us,
Jehovah will never forget our work.
He will always be there to guide, support, protect, and bless us.
What a faith-building account we've considered in 1 Samuel 13 and 14.
Why not take the time to read these chapters for yourself?
You'll be moved to imitate Jonathan's excellent example of loyalty, courage, and obedience.
We want to be described just as Jonathan was at 1 Samuel 14.45,
for it was with God that he acted this day.
By continuing as industrious fellow workers with Jehovah,
we are assured that through faith and patience, we will inherit the promise reward.
Let's look at another example of modern-day fellow workers with God.
Assembly hall servants care for the cleaning and maintenance of these places of worship,
but they don't do this work alone.
In this report from the United States,
we'll see how the work is organized,
and we'll hear how our brothers and sisters feel about being able to help with the work.
The Assembly hall is an educational center.
This is a center of pure worship for all the congregations that come.
Taking care of Jehovah's house as part of sacred service,
even going back to the temple,
everyone had an assignment, they had someone to open the doors.
So, of course, they had somebody also maintaining things.
As of December 2016, there's 773 Assembly halls worldwide.
There's so many details on Assembly Hall.
You can't do it all yourself to be overseer of Assembly Hall.
We're excited to do it, but it seemed real heavy at the time.
It does take, in our particular case, a couple of hundreds.
There's about 200 or so volunteers each and every week
that really are necessary to care for the Assembly Hall.
The grounds, the counting, the purchasing,
the maintenance and the cleaning.
Each and every one of these chairs, the seating,
all has moving parts, has to be maintained.
And with 4,050 seats in here,
we can say that every single one of them has been maintained.
Well, John, 217 says, the zeal for your house will consume me.
And I think we have an opportunity to show Jehovah that,
that we have zeal, we have an eagerness, a fire for his house,
and caring for it.
So, we appreciate all those that want to work at the Assembly Hall.
So many of the dear friends, after they've just been in a whole day,
doing some terribly dirty job, they thank you for the privilege.
Well, that zeal for Jehovah's house.
Nowhere else does that happen, and if you tried to do it yourself.
If we hired somebody, it wouldn't be as good as the work that the friends do when they come in.
When the friends come on the weekend, this is an educational facility.
So they come here to be educated about Jehovah,
and new ones come, and it needs to be dignified and reflect Jehovah's qualities.
So the cleaning that goes on, the maintenance that goes on,
that's what the purpose is.
At lunchtime, we do a spiritual program.
It could be a talk, could be a discussion.
And we really generally try to cover a topic that helps the volunteers
see the connection between their work at the Assembly Hall and Kingdom Preaching work.
We are preachers, that's number one, to spread the good news.
And we see the results of that here, we're filling this place up.
It's a real privilege you learn so much from the sacrifices that the friends make
in order to serve Jehovah, that it makes us feel very small,
and we realize what a blessing it is for us to be in that environment all the time.
The goal of any work in Jehovah's service is to help as many people as you can,
to come to know him, and to take care of his interests here on the earth.
And we all have the same goal, trying to please him, and doing what we can.
Our goal, really, as Assembly Hall servants, is to take care of the place in such a way,
take care of the Assembly Hall in such a way that not only saves
and makes a wise use of dedicated funds and resources,
but also making things ready in such a way that on Saturday morning,
when the brothers and sisters walk in and the attendants and the sound and the stage brothers are getting ready,
all they really have to do is come on, flip the switches, lights come on,
air conditioning, heat, everything's functioning.
Where all they have to do is just focus on the program and listen and take an instruction.
That's what we're asked to do.
Listen and take an instruction.
We can do that when we're not distracted by anything else.
So if everything works well on the Assembly Day, we know we've done our job.
We can remember these hardworking brothers and sisters in our prayers,
and we can do our part to help them.
If possible, volunteer to assist with your congregations cleaning assignment at your next assembly.
Or ask about the arrangement for maintaining Assembly Halls in your area.
A few are needed to take the lead, but they need our help to get the work done.
The same is true with the great amount of work in the congregation.
In our discussion about Jonathan, we mentioned the zealous example of our elders.
Are the elders leaders or do they take the lead?
What's the difference?
For the Jeffrey Jackson explains in this Bethel morning worship.
While meditating on the text this morning, I was reminded of an experience I had many years ago as a missionary.
At the time I was studying with a young man who was training to be a pastor in his church.
This man had got to the point where he started to attend all our meetings while at the same time still attending his church gatherings.
The church obviously was very disturbed about the fact that he was coming to the meetings of Jehovah's Witnesses
and the headquarters sent in a missionary from overseas to try and rectify the situation.
The young man told me what happened.
He said the missionary asked him, what is it that impresses you about Jehovah's Witnesses?
He said, well, one of the things is that they do the preaching work.
The missionary replied, well, our church can do that too.
So the next time they had a service, the missionary conducted the service and with great zeal
and enthusiasm demanded that everyone in the church take part in the preaching work.
He announced the time that they would have the group to go preaching.
The young man told me quite a number of people came along, but there's just one thing missing.
You guessed it, the missionary.
He felt that it was enough just to encourage everybody else to do it without engaging in it himself.
How different was the example of Jesus and of our hardworking elders who do take the lead with regard to the preaching work?
Let's take our Bibles and turn to a very interesting scripture in Hebrews 13 and verse 7 and 17.
I'd like to highlight the beauty of the New World translation in these two verses.
You see at the beginning of verse 7, remember those who are taking the lead among you.
And then verse 17, be obedient to those who are taking the lead among you.
If you look at other Bibles, whether you or old, most of them say your leaders.
Now, obviously, the New World Transition Committee had in mind Jesus comments with regard to no one being a leader among us
and although it's a different word in the Greek text, I still in English, we can't help but be sensitive to that matter.
And so this accurate translation of saying taking the lead really summarizes, doesn't it, what the role is of an elder.
We're not leaders, but we set the right example.
Now, this accurate translation is also portrayed in the words of Lord Jesus Christ as recorded in Luke chapter 22.
And you'll be interested to note that this is part of the revision of the New World Transition text, Luke 226.
It now portrays accurately the fact that both expressions in Hebrew and this one here are the same word.
So Luke chapter 22 verse 26 says, you though are not to be that way, but let the one who is the greatest among you become as the youngest.
And then notice and the one taking the lead.
Now, this is the same expression as in Hebrews as the one ministering.
So obviously, to take the lead means to do the work, to be a minister, to be a servant, to serve others.
This also reminds me many years ago when I worked with the translation team in the Pacific nation of Samoa.
At that point, we were trying to select an accurate expression to convey this thought of taking the lead.
And there were two words, eventually, that the brothers were trying to select between a choose between one was the word ta-i and the other ta-i-mua.
Now, you don't have to remember those words.
But as a foreigner, I didn't really understand the subtleties between the difference of the two words.
So I asked the brothers, how can you explain to me what these two words mean?
So one of the brothers was very eloquent, he said, well, just imagine a procession, a parade.
So ta-i is the old man who sits on the side of the road barking out the orders.
You should do it this way, you should do it that way.
The ta-i-mua, on the other hand, is the one right in the front of the parade, taking the lead, and everyone's following them.
Which word do you think we selected?
Doesn't that summarize nicely? Just exactly what's involved with being an elder.
It's not a matter of sitting on the sidelines barking out orders, but getting involved, setting the right example, and then others following.
And this is in harmony with one Greek lexicon that describes this expression this way.
It says, the concept of leading can be expressed by showing how to do something, demonstrating how we ought to do it, and going ahead showing the way.
Of course, on the other hand, some religions even view the expression elder as a title.
You've probably heard of them introducing themselves.
Good morning, I'm Elder Jackson.
But of course none of us would want to view being an elder as a title in the sense of a position that lords it over others.
And with that in mind, another subtlety to the revision is seen in 1st Timothy chapter 3.
So please turn there with me.
1st Timothy, chapter 3 and verse 1.
These are well-known words, particularly when our brothers are considering the qualifications for elders.
But you may or may not have seen the subtlety of the change here in this revision.
It says, now, this statement is trustworthy.
If a man is reaching out to be an overseer, he is desirous of a fine work.
Do you remember before the original New World Transition said, if someone is reaching out for the office of being an overseer?
And they're that reflected and know that was influenced by the King James and many of the older translations that translated it that way.
But when we look at the rest of the verse, we see that it's not the office or the position of being an overseer that someone reaches out for.
Rather, it's the work.
Yes, the hard work that needs to be done by an overseer.
An overseer recognizes that he needs to work hard as setting a right example and then others will follow rather than just telling everyone what they should do.
So when we look at these subtlety in the New World Transition, it only helps us to appreciate it even more, doesn't it?
So if this in mind, what does that text this morning help us to keep in mind?
Well, as elders, what do we need to do?
Not sit on the sidelines barking out orders, but rather to take the lead, be in the forefront, do the work and then others will follow our example just as we follow the example of Jesus.
The Bible gives us a clear understanding of what Jehovah wants us to do in the congregation.
Elders take the lead by doing the work and we follow their good example.
Applying God's Word contributes to our being fellow workers under peaceful conditions.
But we could be distracted even when our brothers and sisters are right there with us.
What are these distractions? Let's see in this music video.
Because you know that there's much more to life.
A friend requesting likes. Think of all the things we haven't seen.
Well, yeah, you'll never see them if you're focused on a superficial.
You need real friends if you know what I might see around the world.
Take the time to see. See what others see.
Don't trade that plastic box for all your friends.
You can make friends you know are true.
You'd love Jehovah too.
And stand right by your side until the end, but yeah.
You'll never meet them if you're focused on a superficial.
You need real friends if you know what I might see around the world.
Time spent with our brothers and sisters is precious.
Make the most of it by setting aside anything that could distract from the interchange of encouragement.
Sometimes though, our viewpoint of ones in the congregation hides their true beauty that Jehovah sees.
How does the sister in this dramatization learn that lesson?
And in turn, become more beautiful herself.
My name is Mickey. I moved here one year ago.
Everyone was so nice and friendly. That's how I felt in the beginning.
I am not your babysitter.
Didn't you see we were talking?
Come on. This is not a park.
And the elders are always busy.
I'm not sure if they really want me here.
Yoko, a pioneer sister from my former congregation visited me.
She asked me how I was doing.
I told her how I feel about my congregation.
Then she told me that she had a similar experience.
And she shared with me a watchtower article that helped her.
I made this my next personal study project.
What do you see when you look at others?
Do you have the tendency to view what they say or do as either black or white?
As if no other colors or shades existed?
Having that viewpoint would be like a photographer who ignores the large variety
of brilliant hues and shades in an autumn landscape.
As if only black and white images existed.
Maybe I've been viewing the congregation as black and white.
The article then turned my attention to Jesus example.
The spirit of course is eager.
But the flesh is weak.
Why was Jesus able to say such kind words to his disciples?
Insight is the ability to put yourself in the others place.
Jesus did that with his disciples.
Okay, I need to do the same.
She always looks after the children at home.
She also needs time to be refreshed by association with friends at the kingdom hall.
She probably didn't mean to be rude.
Since we looked like we were having an enjoyable conversation,
she may have just wanted to join us.
The elders are so busy caring for the needs of the congregation.
I know they're doing the best they can.
I want to do what I can to make their job easier.
You are such a beautiful Christian.
We're so glad to have you in our congregation.
The inside of a man certainly slows down his anger.
And it is beauty on his part to overlook an offense.
If you'd like to make this less than a topic for your personal study or family worship,
you can review the March 15th, 2008 Watchtower article, beginning on page 25.
The title asks the question, do you view others as Jehovah does?
When we shared Jehovah's view of others,
we're better equipped to be fellow workers with God and with our brothers and sisters.
Finally, this month's report from fellow workers comes to us from the country of Georgia.
Forest, streams, and lush valleys adorn this mountainous region on the border of Europe and Asia.
Georgia's capital, Tbilisi, is a bustling city where modern buildings mix with historic architecture.
The Georgian people are known for their strong family ties and warm hospitality.
Folk music and dances are a rich part of their culture.
Visitors are offered to try a variety of delicious local foods,
such as this candy made from walnuts and grape juice.
Old Town Signagi is a unique place to enjoy the beautiful landscape and culture.
The congregation here has 50 publishers who keep busy in the preaching work.
Despite being a small congregation, they represent almost 3% of the town's population.
Remote towns and villages create opportunities to preach in unassigned territories throughout the year.
We thank the congregation in Signagi and the more than 18,000 brothers and sisters in Georgia
for this encouraging visit with them.
And we send them and all of you, our warm Christian love and greetings.
From the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.